Convert "Fast Playback with Video Preload" from WebFu (#4064)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/fast-playback-with-preload/index.md

media playback by actively preloading resources depending on your use case.

{% Aside %}
  Information in this article also applies to the audio element.
{% endAside %}

<figure>
  <video controls controlsList="nodownload" muted playsinline style="width: 100%">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/webfundamentals-assets/videos/video-preload-hero.webm#t=1.1"
            type="video/webm">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/webfundamentals-assets/videos/video-preload-hero.mp4#t=1.1"
            type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Credits: copyright Blender Foundation | <a href="http://www.blender.org">www.blender.org </a>.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

I'll describe three methods of preloading media files, starting with their pros
and cons.

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th></th>
      <th>
It's great...
      </th>
      <th>
But...
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td rowspan=3 style="white-space: nowrap">
<a href="#video_preload_attribute">Video preload attribute</a>
      </td>
      <td rowspan=3>
Simple to use for a unique file hosted on a web server.
      </td>
      <td>

> Browsers may completely ignore the attribute. The autoplay attribute may also override it.

Author: Doesn't autoplay behavior vary by browser? The two items together are things that may work different by browser. Am I misunderstanding what you were getting at?

> Browsers may completely ignore the attribute. The autoplay attribute may also override it.

Reviewer: I feel like this is the same as saying something like "the video visibility on the web page may also override it" which is also one of the reasons why browsers may ignore it.

> Browsers may completely ignore the attribute. The autoplay attribute may also override it.

Author: Maybe: "For example, `autoplay` may overwrite it.

> Browsers may completely ignore the attribute. The autoplay attribute may also override it.

Author: I removed the line.

    <tr>
      <td>
Resource fetching starts when the HTML document has been completely loaded and
parsed.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
MSE ignores the preload attribute on media elements because the app is responsible for
providing media to MSE.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td rowspan=2 style="white-space: nowrap">
<a href="#link_preload">Link preload</a>
      </td>
      <td>
Forces the browser to make a request for a video resource without blocking
the document's <code>onload</code> event.
      </td>
      <td>
HTTP Range requests are not compatible.
      </td>
    <tr>
      <td>
Compatible with MSE and file segments.
      </td>
      <td>
Should be used only for small media files (&lt;5 MB) when fetching full resources.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
<a href="#manual_buffering">Manual buffering</a>
      </td>
      <td>
Full control
      </td>
      <td>
Complex error handling is the website's responsibility.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Video preload attribute

If the video source is a unique file hosted on a web server, you may want to
use the video `preload` attribute to provide a hint to the browser as to [how

> much information or content to preload]. This means [Media Source Extensions

Author: Fixed

(MSE)] is not compatible with `preload`.

Resource fetching will start only when the initial HTML document has been
completely loaded and parsed (e.g. the `DOMContentLoaded` event has fired)
while the very different `window.onload` event will be fired when resource
has actually been fetched.

<figure>
  <img src="./video-preload.svg">
</figure>

Setting the `preload` attribute to `metadata` indicates that the user is not
expected to need the video, but that fetching its metadata (dimensions, track
list, duration, and so on) is desirable. Note that starting in [Chrome
64][chrome64], the default value for `preload` is `metadata`. (It was `auto`
previously).

```js
<video id="video" preload="metadata" src="file.mp4" controls></video>

<script>
  video.addEventListener('loadedmetadata', function() {
    if (video.buffered.length === 0) return;

>     var bufferedSeconds = video.buffered.end(0) - video.buffered.start(0);

Author: Fixed

    console.log(bufferedSeconds + ' seconds of video are ready to play!');
  });
</script>
```

Setting the `preload` attribute to `auto` indicates that the browser may cache
enough data that complete playback is possible without requiring a stop for
further buffering.

```js
<video id="video" preload="auto" src="file.mp4" controls></video>

<script>
  video.addEventListener('loadedmetadata', function() {
    if (video.buffered.length === 0) return;

>     var bufferedSeconds = video.buffered.end(0) - video.buffered.start(0);

Author: Done.

>     console.log(bufferedSeconds + ' seconds of video are ready to play!');

Author: Done.

  });
</script>
```

There are some caveats though. As this is just a hint, the browser may completely
ignore the `preload` attribute. At the time of writing, here are some rules
applied in Chrome:

- When [Data Saver][datasaver] is enabled, Chrome forces the `preload` value to
  `none`.

> - In Android 4.3, Chrome forces the `preload` value to `none` due to an [Android

Author: The Android bug has been closed for years. I've removed the bullet point completely.

> - In Android 4.3, Chrome forces the `preload` value to `none` due to an [Android

Reviewer: This article was written in 2017. See https://github.com/google/WebFundamentals/pull/4744/files#diff-6eb27e5af989534815954c6c21d790f4f14acba935cc5167cfd3466a2c6635b3R156
The bug was already closed. Please restore.

loaded via `<link rel="preload">` are stored locally in the browser, and are
effectively inert until they're explicitly referenced in the DOM, JavaScript,
or CSS.

Preload is different from prefetch in that it focuses on current navigation and
fetches resources with priority based on their type (script, style, font,
video, audio, etc.). It should be used to warm up the browser cache for current
sessions.

<figure>
  <img src="./link-preload.svg">
</figure>

### Preload full video

Here's how to preload a full video on your website so that when your
JavaScript asks to fetch video content, it is read from cache as the resource
may have already been cached by the browser. If the preload request hasn't
finished yet, a regular network fetch will happen.

```js
<link rel="preload" as="video" href="https://cdn.com/small-file.mp4">

<video id="video" controls></video>

<script>
  // Later on, after some condition has been met, set video source to the
  // preloaded video URL.
  video.src = 'https://cdn.com/small-file.mp4';
  video.play().then(_ => {
    // If preloaded video URL was already cached, playback started immediately.
  });
</script>
```

> Note: I would recommend using this only for small media files (< 5MB).

Author: Done.

Because the preloaded resource is going to be consumed by a video element in
the example, the `as` preload link value is `video`. If it were an audio
element, it would be `as="audio"`.

### Preload the first segment

The example below shows how to preload the first segment of a video with `<link
rel="preload">` and use it with Media Source Extensions. If you're not familiar

> with the MSE Javascript API, please read [MSE basics].

Author: Fixed

For the sake of simplicity, let's assume the entire video has been split into
smaller files like "file_1.webm", "file_2.webm", "file_3.webm", etc.

```js
<link rel="preload" as="fetch" href="https://cdn.com/file_1.webm">

<video id="video" controls></video>

<script>
  const mediaSource = new MediaSource();
  video.src = URL.createObjectURL(mediaSource);
  mediaSource.addEventListener('sourceopen', sourceOpen, { once: true });

  function sourceOpen() {
    URL.revokeObjectURL(video.src);
    const sourceBuffer = mediaSource.addSourceBuffer('video/webm; codecs="vp09.00.10.08"');

    // If video is preloaded already, fetch will return immediately a response
    // from the browser cache (memory cache). Otherwise, it will perform a
    // regular network fetch.
    fetch('https://cdn.com/file_1.webm')
    .then(response => response.arrayBuffer())
    .then(data => {
      // Append the data into the new sourceBuffer.
      sourceBuffer.appendBuffer(data);
      // TODO: Fetch file_2.webm when user starts playing video.
    })
    .catch(error => {
      // TODO: Show "Video is not available" message to user.
    });
  }
</script>
```

> Warning: For cross-origin resources, make sure your CORS headers are set

Author: Fixed.

Before we dive into the [Cache API][cache-api] and service workers, let's see
how to manually buffer a video with MSE. The example below assumes that your web
server supports HTTP Range requests but this would be pretty similar with file
segments. Note that some middleware libraries such as [Google's Shaka
Player][shaka-player], [JW Player][jw-player], and [Video.js][video-js] are
built to handle this for you.

```js
<video id="video" controls></video>

<script>
  const mediaSource = new MediaSource();
  video.src = URL.createObjectURL(mediaSource);
  mediaSource.addEventListener('sourceopen', sourceOpen, { once: true });

  function sourceOpen() {
    URL.revokeObjectURL(video.src);
    const sourceBuffer = mediaSource.addSourceBuffer('video/webm; codecs="vp09.00.10.08"');

    // Fetch beginning of the video by setting the Range HTTP request header.
    fetch('file.webm', { headers: { range: 'bytes=0-567139' } })
    .then(response => response.arrayBuffer())
    .then(data => {
      sourceBuffer.appendBuffer(data);
      sourceBuffer.addEventListener('updateend', updateEnd, { once: true });
    });
  }

  function updateEnd() {
    // Video is now ready to play!

>     var bufferedSeconds = video.buffered.end(0) - video.buffered.start(0);

Author: Fixed

>     console.log(bufferedSeconds + ' seconds of video are ready to play!');

Author: Fixed.

    });
  }
</script>
```

### Considerations

As you're now in control of the entire media buffering experience, I suggest you
consider the device's battery level, the "Data-Saver Mode" user preference and
network information when thinking about preloading.

#### Battery awareness

Please take into account the battery level of users' devices before thinking
about preloading a video. This will preserve battery life when the power level
is low.

Disable preload or at least preload a lower resolution video when the
device is running out of battery.

```js
if ('getBattery' in navigator) {
  navigator.getBattery()
  .then(battery => {
    // If battery is charging or battery level is high enough
    if (battery.charging || battery.level > 0.15) {
      // TODO: Preload the first segment of a video.
    }
  });
}
```

#### Detect "Data-Saver"

Use the `Save-Data` client hint request header to deliver fast and light
applications to users who have opted-in to "data savings" mode in their
browser. By identifying this request header, your application can customize and
deliver an optimized user experience to cost- and performance-constrained
users.

> Learn more by reading our complete [Delivering Fast and Light

Author: Fixed

    });
```

#### Play video

When a user clicks a play button, we'll fetch the first segment of video
available in the Cache API so that playback starts immediately if available.
Otherwise, we'll simply fetch it from the network. Keep in mind that browsers
and users may decide to clear the [Cache][cache].

As seen before, we use MSE to feed that first segment of video to the video
element.

```js
function onPlayButtonClick(videoFileUrl) {
  video.load(); // Used to be able to play video later.

  window.caches.open('video-pre-cache')
  .then(cache => fetchAndCache(videoFileUrl, cache)) // Defined above.
  .then(response => response.arrayBuffer())
  .then(data => {
    const mediaSource = new MediaSource();
    video.src = URL.createObjectURL(mediaSource);
    mediaSource.addEventListener('sourceopen', sourceOpen, { once: true });

    function sourceOpen() {
      URL.revokeObjectURL(video.src);

      const sourceBuffer = mediaSource.addSourceBuffer('video/webm; codecs="vp09.00.10.08"');
      sourceBuffer.appendBuffer(data);

      video.play().then(_ => {
        // TODO: Fetch the rest of the video when user starts playing video.
      });
    }
  });
}
```

> Warning: For cross-origin resources, make sure your CORS headers are set

Author: Fixed.

  return caches.match(request)
  .then(response => {

    // Fetch from network if it's not already in the cache.
    if (!response) {
      return fetch(request);
      // Note that we may want to add the response to the cache and return
      // network response in parallel as well.
    }

    // Browser sends a HTTP Range request. Let's provide one reconstructed
    // manually from the cache.
    if (request.headers.has('range')) {
      return response.blob()
      .then(data => {

        // Get start position from Range request header.
        const pos = Number(/^bytes\=(\d+)\-/g.exec(request.headers.get('range'))[1]);
        const options = {
          status: 206,
          statusText: 'Partial Content',
          headers: response.headers
        }
        const slicedResponse = new Response(data.slice(pos), options);
        slicedResponse.setHeaders('Content-Range': 'bytes ' + pos + '-' +
            (data.size - 1) + '/' + data.size);
        slicedResponse.setHeaders('X-From-Cache': 'true');

        return slicedResponse;
      });
    }

    return response;
  }
}
```

It is important to note that I used `response.blob()` to recreate this sliced

> response as this simply gives me a handle to the file ([in Chrome]) while

Author: `blob()` is now in all major browsers, so I've removed the link completely.

> response as this simply gives me a handle to the file ([in Chrome]) while

Reviewer: Please restore link.
The webpage points to the difference between Firefox and Chrome when returning `response.blob()`

> ---

Reviewer 2: I'm OK with us using the URL `web.dev/video-preload` for this article

Reviewer 2: Although since you mention that it also works with `<audio>`, perhaps that name is too narrow?

Author: I made the intro and title a little more generic.

layout: post

> title: Fast playback with video preload

Reviewer 2: Nit: `Faster video playback with preload` is slightly easier for me to grok

> authors:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
subhead: How to accelerate your media playback by actively preloading resources.
authors:
```
This page seems a bit naked without a subheading:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4713486/96778609-c5d99c00-13a0-11eb-9081-e304596bea2a.png)

  - beaufortfrancois
description: |

>   Faster playback start means more people watching your video. That's a known fact. In this article I'll explore techniques you can use to accelerate your media playback by actively preloading resources depending on your use case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Faster playback start means more people watching your video.
  That's a known fact. In this article I'll explore techniques you can
  use to accelerate your media playback by actively preloading resources
  depending on your use case.
```
Wrapping at ~100 characters

date: 2017-08-17
updated: 2020-10-21
tags:

>   - media
>   - video
> ---

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - media
  - video
  - performance
  - network
---
```
Performance- and network-related, yes?

Faster playback start means more people watching your video. That's a known

> fact. In this article I'll explore techniques you can use to accelerate your

Reviewer 2: Linking to evidence would be more compelling than saying `that's a known fact`

Author: @beaufortfrancois

Author: Ping!

Reviewer: Maybe https://www.digitaltrends.com/web/buffer-rage/

media playback by actively preloading resources depending on your use case.

{% Aside %}

>   Information in this article also applies to the audio element.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Information in this article also applies to the
  [`<audio>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/audio)
  element.
```

    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/webfundamentals-assets/videos/video-preload-hero.webm#t=1.1"
            type="video/webm">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/webfundamentals-assets/videos/video-preload-hero.mp4#t=1.1"
            type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Credits: copyright Blender Foundation | <a href="http://www.blender.org">www.blender.org </a>.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

I'll describe three methods of preloading media files, starting with their pros
and cons.

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th></th>
      <th>
It's great...
      </th>
      <th>
But...
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td rowspan=3 style="white-space: nowrap">
<a href="#video_preload_attribute">Video preload attribute</a>
      </td>
      <td rowspan=3>
Simple to use for a unique file hosted on a web server.
      </td>
      <td>
Browsers may completely ignore the attribute. The autoplay attribute may also override it.
      </td>
    <tr>
      <td>
Resource fetching starts when the HTML document has been completely loaded and
parsed.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>

> MSE ignores the preload attribute on media elements because the app is responsible for

Reviewer 2: What is MSE? This acronym hasn't been defined yet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Media Source Extensions (MSE) ignore the <code>preload</code> attribute on media elements because the app is responsible for
```

```js
<video id="video" preload="auto" src="file.mp4" controls></video>

<script>
  video.addEventListener('loadedmetadata', function() {
    if (video.buffered.length === 0) return;

    const bufferedSeconds = video.buffered.end(0) - video.buffered.start(0);
    console.log(`${bufferedSeconds} seconds of video are ready to play.`);
  });
</script>
```

There are some caveats though. As this is just a hint, the browser may completely
ignore the `preload` attribute. At the time of writing, here are some rules
applied in Chrome:

- When [Data Saver][datasaver] is enabled, Chrome forces the `preload` value to
  `none`.
- On a cellular connection (2G, 3G, and 4G), Chrome forces the `preload` value to
  `metadata`.

### Tips

If your website contains many video resources on the same domain, I would
recommend you set the `preload` value to `metadata` or define the `poster`
attribute and set `preload` to `none`. That way, you would avoid hitting
the maximum number of HTTP connections to the same domain (6 according to the
HTTP 1.1 spec) which can hang loading of resources. Note that this may also
improve page speed if videos aren't part of your core user experience.

## Link preload

> As [covered] in other [articles], [link preload] is a declarative fetch that

Reviewer 2: `[covered]` is a broken link

allows you to force the browser to make a request for a resource without
blocking the `window.onload` event and while the page is downloading. Resources
loaded via `<link rel="preload">` are stored locally in the browser, and are
effectively inert until they're explicitly referenced in the DOM, JavaScript,
or CSS.

Preload is different from prefetch in that it focuses on current navigation and
fetches resources with priority based on their type (script, style, font,
video, audio, etc.). It should be used to warm up the browser cache for current
sessions.

<figure>
  <img src="./link-preload.svg">
</figure>

### Preload full video

Here's how to preload a full video on your website so that when your
JavaScript asks to fetch video content, it is read from cache as the resource
may have already been cached by the browser. If the preload request hasn't
finished yet, a regular network fetch will happen.

```js
<link rel="preload" as="video" href="https://cdn.com/small-file.mp4">

<video id="video" controls></video>

<script>
  // Later on, after some condition has been met, set video source to the
  // preloaded video URL.
  video.src = 'https://cdn.com/small-file.mp4';

>   video.play().then(_ => {

Reviewer 2: Use of underscore here seems uncommon

    // If preloaded video URL was already cached, playback started immediately.
  });
</script>
```

{% Aside %}
  I would recommend using this only for small media files (less than 5MB).
{% endAside %}

Because the preloaded resource is going to be consumed by a video element in
the example, the `as` preload link value is `video`. If it were an audio
element, it would be `as="audio"`.

### Preload the first segment

The example below shows how to preload the first segment of a video with `<link
rel="preload">` and use it with Media Source Extensions. If you're not familiar

> with the MSE Javascript API, please read [MSE basics][mse-basics].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with the MSE Javascript API, see [MSE basics][mse-basics].
```
https://developers.google.com/style/tone#politeness-and-use-of-please

Reviewer 2: @jpmedley this MSE basics seems like another candidate to migrate over to your media collection?

For the sake of simplicity, let's assume the entire video has been split into

> smaller files like "file_1.webm", "file_2.webm", "file_3.webm", etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
smaller files like `file_1.webm`, `file_2.webm`, `file_3.webm`, etc.
```

<script>
  const mediaSource = new MediaSource();
  video.src = URL.createObjectURL(mediaSource);
  mediaSource.addEventListener('sourceopen', sourceOpen, { once: true });

  function sourceOpen() {
    URL.revokeObjectURL(video.src);
    const sourceBuffer = mediaSource.addSourceBuffer('video/webm; codecs="vp09.00.10.08"');

    // If video is preloaded already, fetch will return immediately a response
    // from the browser cache (memory cache). Otherwise, it will perform a
    // regular network fetch.
    fetch('https://cdn.com/file_1.webm')
    .then(response => response.arrayBuffer())
    .then(data => {
      // Append the data into the new sourceBuffer.
      sourceBuffer.appendBuffer(data);
      // TODO: Fetch file_2.webm when user starts playing video.
    })
    .catch(error => {
      // TODO: Show "Video is not available" message to user.
    });
  }
</script>
```

{% Aside 'warning' %}
  For cross-origin resources, make sure your CORS headers are set properly. As
  we can't create an array buffer from an opaque response retrieved with
  `fetch(videoFileUrl, { mode: 'no-cors' })`, we won't be able to feed any video
  or audio element.
{% endAside %}

### Support

> Link preload is not supported in every browser yet. You may want to detect its
> availability with the snippets below to adjust your performance metrics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See MDN's
[Browser compatibility](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Preloading_content#Browser_compatibility)
table to see which browsers support preload. You may want to detect its
availability with the snippets below to adjust your performance metrics.
```

```js
function preloadFullVideoSupported() {
  const link = document.createElement('link');
  link.as = 'video';
  return (link.as === 'video');
}

function preloadFirstSegmentSupported() {
  const link = document.createElement('link');
  link.as = 'fetch';
  return (link.as === 'fetch');
}
```

## Manual buffering

Before we dive into the [Cache API][cache-api] and service workers, let's see
how to manually buffer a video with MSE. The example below assumes that your web

> server supports HTTP Range requests but this would be pretty similar with file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
server supports HTTP [`Range`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Range)
requests but this would be pretty similar with file
```

    .then(response => response.arrayBuffer())
    .then(data => {
      sourceBuffer.appendBuffer(data);
      sourceBuffer.addEventListener('updateend', updateEnd, { once: true });
    });
  }

  function updateEnd() {
    // Video is now ready to play!
    const bufferedSeconds = video.buffered.end(0) - video.buffered.start(0);
    console.log(`${bufferedSeconds} seconds of video are ready to play.`);

    // Fetch the next segment of video when user starts playing the video.
    video.addEventListener('playing', fetchNextSegment, { once: true });
  }

  function fetchNextSegment() {
    fetch('file.webm', { headers: { range: 'bytes=567140-1196488' } })
    .then(response => response.arrayBuffer())
    .then(data => {
      const sourceBuffer = mediaSource.sourceBuffers[0];
      sourceBuffer.appendBuffer(data);
      // TODO: Fetch further segment and append it.
    });
  }
</script>
```

### Considerations

As you're now in control of the entire media buffering experience, I suggest you
consider the device's battery level, the "Data-Saver Mode" user preference and
network information when thinking about preloading.

#### Battery awareness

> Please take into account the battery level of users' devices before thinking

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Take into account the battery level of users' devices before thinking
```
https://developers.google.com/style/tone#politeness-and-use-of-please

about preloading a video. This will preserve battery life when the power level
is low.

Disable preload or at least preload a lower resolution video when the
device is running out of battery.

```js
if ('getBattery' in navigator) {
  navigator.getBattery()
  .then(battery => {
    // If battery is charging or battery level is high enough
    if (battery.charging || battery.level > 0.15) {
      // TODO: Preload the first segment of a video.
    }
  });
}
```

#### Detect "Data-Saver"

Use the `Save-Data` client hint request header to deliver fast and light
applications to users who have opted-in to "data savings" mode in their
browser. By identifying this request header, your application can customize and
deliver an optimized user experience to cost- and performance-constrained
users.

> Learn more by reading our complete [Delivering Fast and Light
> Applications with Save-Data][fast-light] article.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See [Delivering Fast and Light Applications with Save-Data][fast-light] to learn more.
```
I want to avoid describing it as "complete" in the event that people go to the guide and do not find the information they're looking for

#### Smart loading based on network information

You may want to check `navigator.connection.type` prior to preloading. When
it's set to `cellular`, you could prevent preloading and advise users that
their mobile network operator might be charging for the bandwidth, and only start
automatic playback of previously cached content.

```js
if ('connection' in navigator) {
  if (navigator.connection.type == 'cellular') {
    // TODO: Prompt user before preloading video
  } else {
    // TODO: Preload the first segment of a video.
  }
}
```

> Checkout the [Network Information sample][network-info-sample] to learn how to react to network

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Check out the [Network Information sample][network-info-sample] to learn how to react to network
```

changes as well.

### Pre-cache multiple first segments

Now what if I want to speculatively pre-load some media content without

> knowing which piece of media the user will eventually pick. If the user is on a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
knowing which piece of media the user will eventually pick? If the user is on a
```

web page that contains 10 videos, we probably have enough memory to fetch one

> segment file from each but we should definitely not create 10 hidden video

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
segment file from each but we should definitely not create 10 hidden `<video>`
```

elements and 10 `MediaSource` objects and start feeding that data.

> The two part example below shows you how to pre-cache multiple first segments of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The two-part example below shows you how to pre-cache multiple first segments of
```

> video using the powerful and easy-to-use Cache API. Note that something similar

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
video using the powerful and easy-to-use [Cache API](/cache-api-quick-guide/). Note that something similar
```

can be achieved with IndexedDB as well. We're not using service workers yet as

> the Cache API is also accessible from the Window object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the Cache API is also accessible from the `window` object.
```

#### Fetch and cache

```js
const videoFileUrls = [
  'bat_video_file_1.webm',
  'cow_video_file_1.webm',
  'dog_video_file_1.webm',
  'fox_video_file_1.webm',
];

// Let's create a video pre-cache and store all first segments of videos inside.
window.caches.open('video-pre-cache')
.then(cache => Promise.all(videoFileUrls.map(videoFileUrl => fetchAndCache(videoFileUrl, cache))));

function fetchAndCache(videoFileUrl, cache) {
  // Check first if video is in the cache.
  return cache.match(videoFileUrl)
  .then(cacheResponse => {
    // Let's return cached response if video is already in the cache.
    if (cacheResponse) {
      return cacheResponse;
    }
    // Otherwise, fetch the video from the network.
    return fetch(videoFileUrl)
    .then(networkResponse => {
      // Add the response to the cache and return network response in parallel.
      cache.put(videoFileUrl, networkResponse.clone());
      return networkResponse;
    });
  });
}
```

> Note that if I were to use HTTP Range requests, I would have to manually recreate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that if I were to use HTTP `Range` requests, I would have to manually recreate
```

> a `Response` object as the Cache API doesn't support Range responses [yet]. Be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a `Response` object as the Cache API doesn't support `Range` responses [yet]. Be
```

mindful that calling `networkResponse.arrayBuffer()` fetches the whole content
of the response at once into renderer memory, which is why you may want to use
small ranges.

For reference, I've modified part of the example above to save HTTP Range

> requests to the video pre-cache.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
requests to the video precache.
```

```js
function onPlayButtonClick(videoFileUrl) {
  video.load(); // Used to be able to play video later.

  window.caches.open('video-pre-cache')
  .then(cache => fetchAndCache(videoFileUrl, cache)) // Defined above.
  .then(response => response.arrayBuffer())
  .then(data => {
    const mediaSource = new MediaSource();
    video.src = URL.createObjectURL(mediaSource);
    mediaSource.addEventListener('sourceopen', sourceOpen, { once: true });

    function sourceOpen() {
      URL.revokeObjectURL(video.src);

      const sourceBuffer = mediaSource.addSourceBuffer('video/webm; codecs="vp09.00.10.08"');
      sourceBuffer.appendBuffer(data);

      video.play().then(_ => {
        // TODO: Fetch the rest of the video when user starts playing video.
      });
    }
  });
}
```

{% Aside 'warning' %}
  For cross-origin resources, make sure your CORS headers are set properly. As
  we can't create an array buffer from an opaque response retrieved with
  `fetch(videoFileUrl, { mode: 'no-cors' })`, we won't be able to feed any video
  or audio element.
{% endAside %}

### Create Range responses with a service worker

Now what if you have fetched an entire video file and saved it in

> the Cache API. When the browser sends an HTTP Range request, you certainly don't

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the Cache API? When the browser sends an HTTP `Range` request, you certainly don't
```

want to bring the entire video into renderer memory as the Cache API doesn't

> support Range responses yet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
support `Range` responses [yet].
```

> So let me show how to intercept these requests and return a customized Range

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So let me show how to intercept these requests and return a customized `Range`
```

        // Get start position from Range request header.
        const pos = Number(/^bytes\=(\d+)\-/g.exec(request.headers.get('range'))[1]);
        const options = {
          status: 206,
          statusText: 'Partial Content',
          headers: response.headers
        }
        const slicedResponse = new Response(data.slice(pos), options);
        slicedResponse.setHeaders('Content-Range': 'bytes ' + pos + '-' +
            (data.size - 1) + '/' + data.size);
        slicedResponse.setHeaders('X-From-Cache': 'true');

        return slicedResponse;
      });
    }

    return response;
  }
}
```

It is important to note that I used `response.blob()` to recreate this sliced
response as this simply gives me a handle to the file while
`response.arrayBuffer()` brings the entire file into renderer memory.

My custom `X-From-Cache` HTTP header can be used to know whether this request
came from the cache or from the network. It can be used by a player such as
[ShakaPlayer][shakaplayer] to ignore the response time as an indicator of
network speed.

{% YouTube 'f8EGZa32Mts' %}

Have a look at the official [Sample Media App][sample-media-app] and in particular its

> [ranged-response.js] file for a complete solution for how to handle Range

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[ranged-response.js] file for a complete solution for how to handle `Range`
```

---
layout: post
title: Fast playback with audio and video preload
subhead: How to accelerate your media playback by actively preloading resources.
authors:
  - beaufortfrancois
description: |
  Faster playback start means more people watching your video or listening to
  your audio. That's a known fact. In this article I'll explore techniques you
  can use to accelerate your media playback by actively preloading resources
  depending on your use case.
date: 2017-08-17
updated: 2020-11-03
tags:
  - media
  - video
  - performance
  - network
---

Faster playback start means more people watching your video or listening to your

> audio. [That's a known fact](https://www.digitaltrends.com/web/buffer-rage/). In

Reviewer: Nit: You can move link URL at the bottom.

this article I'll explore techniques you can use to accelerate your audio and
video playback by actively preloading resources depending on your use case.

> <figure>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<figure class="w-figure">

>   <video controls controlsList="nodownload" muted playsinline style="width: 100%">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <video controls muted playsinline class="w-screenshot">

>     <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/webfundamentals-assets/videos/video-preload-hero.webm#t=1.1"

Reviewer: Shall we move those video assets to web.dev storage bucket as well?

Author: Done.

            type="video/webm">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/webfundamentals-assets/videos/video-preload-hero.mp4#t=1.1"
            type="video/mp4">
  </video>

>   <figcaption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">

previously).

```js
<video id="video" preload="metadata" src="file.mp4" controls></video>

<script>
  video.addEventListener('loadedmetadata', function() {
    if (video.buffered.length === 0) return;

    const bufferedSeconds = video.buffered.end(0) - video.buffered.start(0);
    console.log(`${bufferedSeconds} seconds of video are ready to play.`);
  });
</script>
```

Setting the `preload` attribute to `auto` indicates that the browser may cache
enough data that complete playback is possible without requiring a stop for
further buffering.

```js
<video id="video" preload="auto" src="file.mp4" controls></video>

<script>
  video.addEventListener('loadedmetadata', function() {
    if (video.buffered.length === 0) return;

    const bufferedSeconds = video.buffered.end(0) - video.buffered.start(0);
    console.log(`${bufferedSeconds} seconds of video are ready to play.`);
  });
</script>
```

There are some caveats though. As this is just a hint, the browser may completely
ignore the `preload` attribute. At the time of writing, here are some rules
applied in Chrome:

- When [Data Saver][datasaver] is enabled, Chrome forces the `preload` value to
  `none`.

> - On a cellular connection (2G, 3G, and 4G), Chrome forces the `preload` value to

Reviewer: Please restore "- In Android 4.3, Chrome forces the `preload` value to `none` due to an [Android bug]." as communicated earlier at https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web.dev/pull/4064#discussion_r507831887

Reviewer: @jpmedley This is **valuable** information for web developers that still want to know why Chrome on Android 4.3 (not supported anymore due to [JellyBean deprecation](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=923900)) overrides the `preload` value.
This bug is still relevant. **PLEASE** restore.

Reviewer: @jpmedley (gentle ping)

  const mediaSource = new MediaSource();
  video.src = URL.createObjectURL(mediaSource);
  mediaSource.addEventListener('sourceopen', sourceOpen, { once: true });

  function sourceOpen() {
    URL.revokeObjectURL(video.src);
    const sourceBuffer = mediaSource.addSourceBuffer('video/webm; codecs="vp09.00.10.08"');

    // If video is preloaded already, fetch will return immediately a response
    // from the browser cache (memory cache). Otherwise, it will perform a
    // regular network fetch.
    fetch('https://cdn.com/file_1.webm')
    .then(response => response.arrayBuffer())
    .then(data => {
      // Append the data into the new sourceBuffer.
      sourceBuffer.appendBuffer(data);
      // TODO: Fetch file_2.webm when user starts playing video.
    })
    .catch(error => {
      // TODO: Show "Video is not available" message to user.
    });
  }
</script>
```

{% Aside 'warning' %}
  For cross-origin resources, make sure your CORS headers are set properly. As
  we can't create an array buffer from an opaque response retrieved with
  `fetch(videoFileUrl, { mode: 'no-cors' })`, we won't be able to feed any video
  or audio element.
{% endAside %}

### Support

See MDN's

> [Browser compatibility](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Preloading_content#Browser_compatibility)

Reviewer: Move URL link at the bottom

          status: 206,
          statusText: 'Partial Content',
          headers: response.headers
        }
        const slicedResponse = new Response(data.slice(pos), options);
        slicedResponse.setHeaders('Content-Range': 'bytes ' + pos + '-' +
            (data.size - 1) + '/' + data.size);
        slicedResponse.setHeaders('X-From-Cache': 'true');

        return slicedResponse;
      });
    }

    return response;
  }
}
```

It is important to note that I used `response.blob()` to recreate this sliced
response as this simply gives me a handle to the file while
`response.arrayBuffer()` brings the entire file into renderer memory.

My custom `X-From-Cache` HTTP header can be used to know whether this request
came from the cache or from the network. It can be used by a player such as
[ShakaPlayer][shakaplayer] to ignore the response time as an indicator of
network speed.

{% YouTube 'f8EGZa32Mts' %}

Have a look at the official [Sample Media App][sample-media-app] and in particular its
[ranged-response.js] file for a complete solution for how to handle `Range`
requests.

[how much information or content to preload]: https://web.dev/video-and-source-tags/#preload

> [video preload attribute]: https://web.dev/video-and-source-tags/#preload

Reviewer: Replaces all occurrences of  "https://web.dev/" with "/"

[chrome64]: /web/updates/2017/12/chrome-63-64-media-updates#media-preload-defaults-metadata
[datasaver]: https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/2392284
[covered]: https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2016/03/link-rel-preload
[articles]: https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2016/02/preload-what-is-it-good-for/
[link preload]: https://w3c.github.io/preload/

> [cache]: https://web.dev/storage-for-the-web/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[cache]: /storage-for-the-web/#eviction

[shakaplayer]: https://github.com/google/shaka-player/blob/master/docs/tutorials/service-worker.md
[sample-media-app]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/sample-media-pwa
[ranged-response.js]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/sample-media-pwa/blob/master/src/client/scripts/ranged-response.js
[cache-api]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Cache
[yet]: https://github.com/whatwg/fetch/issues/144
[shaka-player]: https://github.com/google/shaka-player
[jw-player]: https://developer.jwplayer.com/
[video-js]: http://videojs.com/
[network-info-sample]: https://googlechrome.github.io/samples/network-information/
[fast-light]: https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2016/02/save-data

> [mse-basics]: https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/media/mse/basics

Reviewer: Link is 404 because of https://github.com/google/WebFundamentals/pull/9053/

Author: I'll work on these next. In the meantime, I've hidden or replace the links.

- When [Data Saver][datasaver] is enabled, Chrome forces the `preload` value to
  `none`.

> - In Android 4.3, Chrome forces the `preload` value to `none` due to an [android-bug].

Reviewer: Ir should be "Android bug" not "android-bug".

Author: Fixed.

deliver an optimized user experience to cost- and performance-constrained
users.

> <!-- See [Delivering Fast and Light Applications with Save-Data][fast-light] to learn more. -->

Author: Because I thought it wasn't. Fixing.

[ranged-response.js] file for a complete solution for how to handle `Range`
requests.

> <!-- [mse-basics]: https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/media/mse/basics -->

Author: I think I got interrupted in middle of something. Fixing.
